All right.
So we just learned that you can make pages in next JS.
You might be asking, okay Wes, how do I do a layout?
How do I get a little bit higher?
And the reality is that in next JS
a page is as high as you can get inside of it.
We're just returning it diff like where's the HTML tag?
Where's the head of the document?
Where's all that other stuff
that you're used to writing in an HTML?
Like, I mean, let me show you real quick for you.
Open up HTML document and you type exclamation mark, tab.
Like where is all this?
The doc type, the HTML
the car set, language on the HTML document,
all of that.
Where's the body tech, right?
Well, everything inside of the page
just gets dumped into the body.
And if you want control either over like a layout component,
that goes, shows up on every page
or you want control over the stuff that shows up in here
that's what this video is going to do.
We're going to get into that.
So let's start by the very simplest.
How would I get something
like the NAF to show up on every single page?
Well, you might think, okay, let's make a page component.
So we're going to go into our components folder
and make a new file.
And we'll call that capital P page dot JS
and let's make a function called capital P page.
And we'll export,
default that cause we're going to be importing it.
And then from there we'll return,
let's just return a div for now.
And we'll just put a h two.
Doesn't really matter what one we'll delete this.
Just say I am the page component right? Okay, good.
Now, if I wanted that to show up on every single page
in here, how do we do that?
Well, you might think, okay, let's go to our index page here
and let's start using that page component.
So instead of having a div here
let's replace it with a page component, right?
You notice that that's a capital P.
That's because it is reusable in react.
Now, right away when I save, you'll see.
First, we've got these little red squiggles under here.
It says, page is not defined.
And it's showing up in here.
Now, these red squiggles, this is my IES lint config.
I have installed it.
And I've also included the settings in your package JSON.
So for you to actually get it up and running
you just need to install the vs code eslint plugin.
It probably is working already.
If it's not, I'm not going to go into it in this,
because it changes so often.
But I do have these settings and all the instructions
both on Wesbos, Eslint config.
As well as if you just Google,
No-Sweat Eslint and Prettier.
I have a YouTube video showing you how
and that's updated all the time, showing you how to,
how to get it working so that you can get the feedback here.
So why is that happening?
Well, that's happening because,
we haven't imported that page.
So we know in react is if you create a component here
it will not be accessible until you import it.
So what we could do here is
is we'd go to the top and say import page from quotes.
Okay, so now we are in the pages directory
and our page is in the components directory.
So we take a look here, we're here.
We need to go up a level
and then into components and then into page.
So dot, dot up, okay.
Then we go into the components directory,
and then we go into and grab our page.
One kind of cool thing,
and I'm going to be using this quite a bit
in this course is vs codes, auto import.
So instead of having to type this every single time
what we can do is we go
to the thing where it says, it's not defined.
You can hit your control space bar
and that will open up this and you'll see auto import.
And usually it's either one of these square cubes
that's purple or it's one of these.
I don't even know what that is,
like a chocolate bar with squares in it.
You can auto import it, click on it.
And you'll see that it figured out
because we already called it because we called it page here.
It knows, Oh, I can auto import that in from there.
Now there's one more squiggly.
Once I give that a save, boop, it turns over.
And the reason why that happened is because,
I have my settings set up to use single quotes
and it will auto import it with double quotes.
But once I give it a save
both the Eslint and the Prettier that's running
in that config showed you will auto fix it for you
which is awesome.
Again, if that auto fix is not working
look at the docs for the Eslint
and it will show you how to get that up and running.
Okay, cool.
So now we have a page component
and we are wrapping each of our pages in it.
So a page, it says, hello
but it says I am the page component.
So the next question I have is why is this not showing up?
Well that's because if we look
at our page component here,
you'll note that,
we are actually not rendering out anything to it.
So what we do is,
we render out the children of that component.
So if you take a look,
let's look at our react dev tools here,
we'll go into our components and I can't make it bigger
for whatever reason react dev tools has done this forever.
But if we take a look
at our look for our page component, here we go,
you see that our child of our page component right here
is P there's a, there's a paragraph.
And that is this.
If I put another, maybe I put a code and save our
you'll see that our array is there's a paragraph and a code.
So in order to render out the children that we passed
to our page component, we simply go
into our page component and simply curly brackets.
And we need to render out the children.
Now, again, these children variable is not defined.
Where do we get it from?
Well, you get it from props dot children.
And the props of a component
in react can be taken in via the arguments of the function.
So it normally looks like this props.
And then we go here and we say, prop, stop children.
And you see it. There we go.
There's our hello and there's our far showing up.
And now we're rendering out anything that gets passed
to the page
or anything that is a child of the page component.
I am a child then gets rendered out to that.
Okay, cool.
One more thing.
We got a bit of a squiggly showing up here.
Children is missing and props
and you must use de-structuring assignment.
So what normally happens is instead of just passing props
and referencing all the children,
you destructure this props argument
into the actual props that you need.
And the way that that works is instead
of just prompts, variable, you destructure
that's curly brackets, children.
And then if we had any other values
that were passed to that as props,
we could get that, get them there.
And then it's just simply children.
So let me show you a once more is if we took this page
and we said, I don't know, cool is equal to heck yeah.
And we went here
and now we can destructure the cool prop
and we could display that cool prop in here, right?
So there we go.
It's being passed as a prop called cool here.
And then it is accessible via the function props like this.
It is still showing us some little red squigglies here.
And that is because it is missing in props validation.
So that's not an error, but if you want to do prop types
I can show you how that would work.
We take our page and we say, adopt prop types
capital T is equal to that.
And then we say
cool is going to be equal to a prop types dot string.
Now we need to import that.
That looks like the auto import isn't working for that one.
Maybe it's just prop types.
I'm not sure what the name of it is so we can just
manually import it.
So import prop types from, and then it's prop dash types.
And you see the cool is being is no longer showing up.
That's pretty introductory react stuff.
I'm not going to write the prop types
for absolutely every single thing.
You can do it.
If you're using TypeScript,
you probably aren't even using prop types.
And I've shown many times in my other courses how to use it.
So I'll show you in this one.
Again, the children is not there.
So we say children and it's prop types dot
and you can see we've got all of the possible ones
that we have here.
A string object
Boolean function node, and it would be an array
Of node.
Oh, it's prop types dot node.
There we go.
That's showing up, let's go to our console
and make sure everything looks good.
Refresh and good, no errors.
The favicon we'll deal with that in just a bit.
Okay. So that is working.
Now the question is if I go to forward slash sell
now the whole thing doesn't work again.
So let's go to our cell page.
So sell dot JS.
Now, do we have to put the page,
to do the whole song and dance the page component in there?
Import it good.
I came in there and now it's working again.
Maybe we'll say, hello.
I am the sell page.
And that, that K, that now shows up, but we've got this
error here and valid prop children type supplied
to page expected and array.
And I think that's because it's expecting an array of nodes.
And in our case is just one node.
We put another paragraph tag there.
I bet it goes away.
Yeah, it does go away.
So how do we fix that?
You can go back to your prop types here and you can say
we want an array of nodes, or we want just a single node.
So you could say prop types dot one of
and then you use a square bracket.
You could say one of an array
of nodes or prop types dot node.
And that will allow us to either take a single node
or an array, but then also you could pass a number.
It just gets a little bit confusing cause
children could be anything.
So what you can do in that case is just prep type, set any
and say anything you pass me down, just, just render it out.
So that is, that's a good use case for any.
It literally could be anything in that case.
So what we did there is we, we wrapped it in a page.
So you might be saying, okay, Wes,
do I have to wrap every single page that I make
in that page component?
Like, is there not some sort
of global layout that I can wrap the entire thing in?
So anytime a page gets created
we wrap it in that.
And the answer to that is yes, there are two special files
in next JS that will allow us to get access both
to the everything inside of the body,
as well as you can go a little bit higher
and get everything in the head of the document.
So what we're going to do is,
we're going to do the first one, which is our app component.
We'll go into our pages directory and make a new file.
It's going to be underscore app dot JS.
So very little in next JS is special.
The only special things are
you must have a pages directory with your pages in it.
And if you want to control anything a little higher
than the page component
you must do it in your app dot JS file.
And then what we'll do in here.
So I'll make a export default function.
We'll call it my app.
And from that, we will return.
And this is where you can actually take your page
component that we made, and then we'll render
out any children that are passed down.
Now, next, Jess is a little bit differently here.
You might think, okay, just children, right?
But it's a little bit different
as it's a prop of the app component.
Here, it's the capital C component prop.
And we also need the page props that are passed
down and here we just use our component
and then we will spread dot, dot, dot page props into it.
Okay, good.
Now you see a couple of squiggles here.
This is prop types.
I'm going to turn that off in future videos.
I thought I would leave it in just for the first few,
just so you can see.
Also you probably will run into that in your own projects.
So I just don't,
I didn't want to turn it off and you can hide it.
And then this is no props spreading.
I'll turn that one off as well.
Cause I believe I honestly that's my own config
but I believe it's, it's totally fine.
There's no, no harm in there.
If you're ever wondering like why you can click
through to it and see it's, it's not bad
but just like why it is a possible rule.
All right.
So we have that.
Now, if we go to our website, now
if you go to a page, well, I'm on the cell page here.
We still see I'm a page component.
We'll go to our cell JS.
Let's take that off now and simply just have a paragraph tag
and you notice, okay, well,
our page component is not working.
I believe we have to do a quick little refresh here.
So kill it.
Return rerun, NPM, run dev,
and then refresh this page.
And there we go now showing up.
So that is one of the few situations where
you do need to kill your build and started again, just
because we're doing a foundational, the foundational thing.
And that might not even be true
that might have changed in a recent version of react.
So now we have our page component.
Now, if I go to any other page like the homepage, you'll see
we have double page components.
Now why?
Because we no longer need to wrap every single page
in this page component,
because it has done being done globally
in our underscore app that JS.
So let's go ahead and remove that.
Let's go ahead and remove that.
And if you do want to return multiple elements
that are adjacent to each other
we can wrap it in what are called react fragments.
And they look like this, which is basically ghost tags.
They do nothing in our case.
So that's awesome.
We can get rid of this import here.
We can get rid of this import here and we are in good shape.
Last thing we want to do is we also want to
make a custom document.
We'll be modifying our app
and our document as we get more into data loading.
But for now we want to make a custom document layout.
We'll go into our pages here
and make it honors core document dot JS.
And again, we'll export default.
And this is a little bit weird as well
not necessarily weird,
but this is one of the few places where,
we will be using a class in our code.
I guess there is no API for just function base.
So we have class my document
It extends
Capital D document.
And we got to import that import document
from next forward slash document.
Okay. And then inside of here, we have a render method.
So this is classes in react have a render method.
And that's the same thing as just returning from here.
This, this course is going to be done primarily
or entirely in functions and hooks.
And it doesn't will not really be using these
classes outside of this one file just
because our next year is currently
at the time of the recording does not have an API
for hooks or anything like that.
So render from there, we need to return.
And this is, this is a little bit funky as well
capital HTML that's
and that needs to be imported from next as well.
Capital HTML.
We also, while we're here,
let's just grab the rest,
capital H head next script and main.
And then in here, this is your HTML tag.
If you have any custom attributes that need to put
on your HTML tag, like a Lang attribute in my case
I'm Canadian.
So I want to say is written in Canadian and inside of that
you have a capital H head tag and we will be putting stuff
in there.
We actually don't need that for now.
So you can comment it out.
We'll come back to that for style components, just a second.
Then we do a regular body tag.
That's not a custom one
and we have our main and we have our next script.
And this is just boiler plate.
That next year it's usually tucks away for themselves.
But the reason why we do that is because we
need access to be able to do custom HTML attributes as well
as we need the ability to stick our CSS inside of the head
which we're going to run into in just a second.
One thing I haven't done here is you've got to return this
and that is looking pretty good.
This is not going to change anything except the fact
that we should see a Lang show up on our HTML tag.
So if refresh this, it's not showing up, probably
need to kill it and rerun NPM run dev.
And there we go.
Our HTML Lang is showing up
and I don't believe there are any issues showing
up or we're in good shape here.
Okay. So good.
I know that one was a little bit heavier.
Like what's the point of that Wes?
That'll make sense.
This is just a bit of setup in the next video.
Let's jump into actually creating a nav
on that page component.